# OLMS
A web application that automates the leave management system in colleges.
This project is aimed at developing an online leave management system that is of importance to colleges. The Online Leave Management System (OLMS) is an Intranet based application that can be accessed throughout the college. This system can be used to automate the workflow of leave applications and their approvals. This system is great solutions for all leave related problems in the colleges. In most of the organizations, the leave related information are maintained through the letter/paper work which is very difficult task because as the time passed, the information will be lost. Using this system the administrator can view the information of a particular employee that for how many days he was on leave. Both the leave applicant as well as the approver can view the remaining leave days as well as historical leave applications. There are number of accesses to the system by different levels of employees such as teaching staffs, non teaching staffs, HOD, Principal. Each staff can take different type of leaves such as half pay leave, maternity leave, casual leave etc. The leave which is submitted online is sent to head of the department and only after his/her approval it is sent to the principal. The final decision is taken by the principal and result is sent to the staff.The staff and HOD can also cancel an applied leave before or after approval. This system has several advantages. It helps to save time, improve accuracy, improves discipline, easy access to leave history etc.
